1. Describe the Biology of your project. (one paragraph max).

Designing new primers for metabarcoding is one of the primary challenges in genomics.
This project seeks to help automate and simplify that process, by taking a limited 
number of inputs from the user (e.g. target group, gene, purpose of primer - like 
eDNA metabarcoding, just amplifying a certain gene, etc.) and churning out primers, with
information included about those primers and how they can be used.

2. Describe the kind of data that you think you will be handling (one paragraph max).
There will be a number of different types of data used in this program. The idea of the
program is to integrate ecoPCR, ecoPrimers, and other programs that can be used to test
primers in order to streamline the process. It will use ecoPCR outputs, ecoPrimers 
outputs, and crux databases or other example DNA sequences (EMBL or NCBI etc.).

3. What would you like to do with that data? (one paragraph max).
Here is my thought process for how the data will be used:
-> The necessary programs will have to be installed. These include ecoPCR, ecoPrimers, OBITools, R,
KronaTools, primer3plus, and perhaps some others
-> The user will specify the inputs. These will include the purpose of the primer, the target
group(s), what gene they want to target, non-target groups (most important for eDNA primers), etc.
-> The program will draw on a database (NCBI, EMBL, CRUX) to get example sequences for both target
and non-target taxa (if for an eDNA metabarcoding primer). I'm not sure exactly how I want to do
this step - for my particular project to design a genus-specific primer, I used already existing
primers that were published by another paper for a specific gene (cytB) to generate example
sequences using ecoPCR. I understand that this won't work for most situations, as people will
want to generate new primers for genes that don't already have functioning primers. I will have to
write a program that pulls/downloads sequences from EMBL or NCBI to use as example sequences.
-> Once you have example sequences, an ecoPrimers script will be used to generate a raw primer
list.
-> The program will then filter the raw primer list based on the inputs that were specified earlier
by the user. It will also filter the primer list using R scripts, to select only those primers
that have a melting temperature less than 50C, primer status must be GG, and GC content 40-60%.
There will be an option to have the user change these inputs.
-> The primers will be run through primer3plus to check for secondary structures.
-> Scripts will be used to check for mismatch and resolution.
-> A final list of primers will be generated, with information about each primer.

4. What will be the output? (one paragraph max).
A list of primers will be generated, with information included about the sequence of the primer,
its melting temperature, what species it detects, etc. KronaTools could be used to create an 
infographic about the primers that explains what species are detected by the primers.

5. Is there any computational tool, package, etc. you would like to use? What would you do with that? For instance, you could mention shell scripts with sed or awk and will change the format of a table by replacing , with tabs. Also, you could mention tools that we haven’t seen in class yet but you herd that may be useful for your project. For instance, you could say I will use the package “GenomeGraphs” implement in the R software to visualize genome data. (a few sentences max).
The computational tools needed for this program include ecoPCR, ecoPrimers, OBITools, R, KronaTools,
primer3plus, and perhaps some others. their use is explained above.

6. What is your biggest concern regarding your project? (a few sentences max).
I'm concerned that the program won't be flexible enough to be universally applicable for primer 
design. I think that the step to generate reference sequences will be the most difficult, and
building flexibility into this step will be the toughest. I think that if I run into issues, I
might have to make the program less ambitious and perhaps focus only on making primers for one 
purpose, such as for eDNA.
